**Scott Friedman**

26 Tyler Dr., Essex Junction, VT, 05452 / +1 (802) 318-4741 /
scott\@safriedman.com

**August 2018 – Present: Principal Consultant and Founder, ProjectGuide, LLC** –
Provide project management consulting services to businesses. Examples of the
services provided are part-time or full-time project management of one or more
projects as well as short-term services such as methodology assessments,
methodology development, artifact development, portfolio construction, project
metrics development, process change facilitation, project initiation, and
project manager mentoring and coaching.

**May 2015 – July 2018: Software Development Manager, MyWebGrocer (MWG)** –
Responsible for seven-person programming team across Vermont location and at
strategic partner Fortech in Romania. Deliver the MWG e-Commerce grocery
platform to North American grocery chains. Manage the extended team of analysts,
software developers, and QA personnel during the software lifecycle.

-   Delivered on-time MWG DEP e-commerce platform for major southeastern US
    grocery chain in June 2018.

-   Delivered projects for core platform updates and retail customers involving
    accessibility and custom products in during 2017.

-   Delivered on-time MWG DEP platform with many customizations to mid-Atlantic
    US grocery chain in October 2016.

-   Delivered first Sales Demo implementation of the MWG DEP platform in June
    2016.

-   Deployed changes for Google Publisher Tags to all MWG legacy platforms in
    March 2016 before Google deadline.

-   Delivered DEP platform products for circular management and internal tooling
    in October 2015.

**June 2012 – May 2015: Senior Project Manager, Senior Principal Consultant, NTT
DATA** – Project Manager in Project Delivery Team for National Life Group (NLG)
account. Work with NLG clients and NLG’s IT US and remote staff to initiate and
deliver projects on time, on budget, and to standards in Statements of Work.
Manage all aspects of project lifecycle. Communicate with NLG executives and
manage expectations.

-   Completed NLG one year project for agent number expansion on time and under
    budget with over one hundred direct project contributors and 8,000 hours of
    work.

-   Completed all projects on-time for NLG’s for Corporate Actuarial
    Transformation initiative with over 10,000 hours of project work.

-   Attained Project Management Institute (PMI) Project Management Professional
    (PMP) certification.

**April 2009 – April 2012: Software Development Manager, iSystems, LLC** –
Responsible for software development and quality assurance teams for iSystems
commercial payroll and HR management system. Managed eleven software developers,
five quality assurance staff, and two off-shore contract programmers.
Responsible for delivery of client, server, and web components of the products.

-   Enabled granular control of features updated in each build resulting in 50%
    reduction of injected defects by replacing software configuration management
    (SCM) system. Developed new software build process, enabling daily releases
    if necessary.

-   Increased average number of features and fixes per month by 25% and focused
    attention on the most important backlog items by introducing and using Agile
    development process.

-   Increased software test capacity resulting in faster testing per feature and
    reduced risk by introducing virtual machine usage with quick configuration
    creation, backup, and restore. Reduced regression test process from five to
    two hours.

**August 2003 – March 2009: Mask Systems and Product Engineering Manager, IBM**
– Responsible for delivery, enhancement, and maintenance of customer ordering,
data transformation, manufacturing reporting, data transmission, and factory
automation systems for IBM’s only photomask development and manufacturing
facility. Managed team of 14 software developers and product engineers.

-   Delivered competitive photomask ordering and manufacturing option resulting
    in IBM’s customers saving over \$100K per order.

-   Saved one of IBM’s premier semiconductor projects worth over \$100M by
    qualifying new software supplier for mask manufacturing.

-   Delivered applications to process new semiconductor design language enabling
    mask construction for new generation of servers.

**June 1997 – August 2003: Equipment Integration Manager, IBM** – Responsible
for delivery, enhancement, and maintenance of semiconductor process equipment
automation software in IBM’s 200mm semiconductor manufacturing and test
facility. Managed team of up to 25 software engineers and technicians working on
a portfolio of approximately 80 applications.

-   Created new equipment control application framework for new 300mm
    semiconductor facility resulting in on-time startup of equipment automation
    in new facility. Framework was first large Java-on-Linux installation for
    IBM.

-   Enabled automated factory control of IBM semiconductor stocking and
    packaging systems resulting in higher quality by deploying applications
    built on new equipment control application framework.

**January 1985 – June 1997: Development Engineer, IBM** – Engineer and software
developer for the Semiconductor Test and Equipment Technology organizations.
Responsible for developing software for tester and in-situ sensors.

PMP Certification \#1703317, Project Management Institute, March 2014 (in good
standing)

MS Software Engineering, National Technological University, 1995

MS Electrical Engineering, University of Vermont, 1989

BS Electrical Engineering, Purdue University, 1984

